# Where Was The Legend Of Johnny Lingo Filmed
  
Just watched this movie that I had rented for my son with him, I liked it. On the cover it looked like Disney kids fare, because someone thought it neccessary to make the boy lead character ride on a SURFBOARD, have a PARROT on his shoulder, and DOLPHINS in the background, none of which appear in the film.  
What an insult to Oceanic culture to assume that without these clichees nobody would have interest in the movie.
 
**Download ☆☆☆ [https://tinurll.com/2A0TbF](https://tinurll.com/2A0TbF)**


 
It is a valiant attempt to tell a Polynesian story in an authentic manner, like a legend, all with native actors (which regretfully have a strong British accent), shot in beautiful locations in New Zealand and the Cook Islands. The movie and the acting might seem naive, but so it is with native legends and Fairy Tales, and though this is no "Whale Rider", it is beautiful to watch, and an honest, sweet film.
 
**Plot Summary for Johnny Lingo (1969)**  
Johnny Lingo, one of the sharpest traders in the south pacific islands decides to bargain for a wife, and offers a record price of eight cows for Mahana, a plain girl who shuns contact. This causes quite a sensation on the island. A year later Johnny and his wife return for the first time since the marriage, and all find that something miraculous has occurred to Mahana. Johnny explains that by paying eight cows he proved that she was worth more to him than any other woman on the island. He gave her a great gift, that of self-worth.
 
So this was already interpreted into a movie in 1969? Interesting, it must be an old tale. The 2004 movie I just saw tells the story of how the boy became Johnny Lingo, and the wedding dowry scene happens at the very end.
 
Aloha,  
They used to show us this film in Grade school, 8mm projection at it finest (Sabu, were you an AV geek?). It was told by an old trader type, he knew Johnny Lingo and the tale was told in flashback. In the end Johnny Lingo returns with his wife. Ahhh, the important lessons I learned at Harbor View Elementary, always pay many Cows for your wife. Shelley's an 8 cow girl.

When a storm washes a canoe bearing an infant boy ashore upon a small South Pacific island, he is at first well-received as a gift from the heavens, even to the point of the tribal chief adopting him as a successor. However, with time as hardships are blamed upon Tama (as he is named), he is finally outcast to live with the poorest people on the island, Mahana and her drunken father. Mahana is considered homely and undesirable, but Tama feels differently, so when he is old enough to build a craft to sail away, he vows to return for her one day. A lucky stroke brings him to land upon the island of the legendary Johnny Lingo, the wealthiest trader in the islands, and after years of service to him, Tama has learned much about life and himself as he dreams of honoring his pledge to Mahana.
 
i watched the johnny lingo movie also, it was simple and sweet. i grew up in that kind of simplicity. in the 70's. i was raised to be like her, honorable, honest, loyal,sacrificing,understanding, disciplined, in the hopes of finding someone when i grew up that would appreciate me and all that goo. it was a big shock to find that no one appreciated it or was even close to being like me. guess i was living in a shell, haha.
 
The 1969 version is a short "educational/morality" film produced by Brigham Young University. I was available to schools by educational film distributors. As a Mormon boy growing up in Hawaii during the 60s & 70s we would see this film a lot. It was a fun little film and we would also recognized some of the Polynesian actors who lived near BYU-Hawaii. Today we still say our favorite line of the movie "Mahana you ugly!" voiced by Mahana's father. It was a cruel thing to say to a low self-esteem daughter who's tribe teased her but as she grew up she blossomed but one couldn't tell because her rough exterior (mental), bad reputation and as mentioned her low self-worth. When wealthy Johnny Lingo (who was a former playmate as kids) returns, he saw though her rough exterior and he ignored her bad reputation and paid a record 8 cows for her hand in marriage. Well the moral of the story can still be related today, a husband who adores you, especially a husband with high social status (money and/or power) ones self-worth can climb. A person can really change for the better like Mahana did. Suddenly your appearance can improve by society even though one is still the same. One can buy this short (with 3 others) on DVD at: =TM026
 
Some years latter a movie version of his short was released and distributed by Disney. It was titled THE LEGEND OF JOHNNY (2003). Most of the Polynesian actors in this feature length film are Maori, Samoan and Tongan raised or educated in New Zealand thus the British colonial accent by the cast. Same thing in Rapa Nui. Although the movie was a fun family affair we old school guys like the short version better. Here are some screen captures from the movie and I'll shortly show some captures from the short.  
Young Johnny Lingo with tikis:  
  
One note of interest from the movie (besides the all-star Polynesian cast) was that it's principle producer was Oscar winner and former Spielberg producer Gerald R. Molen.
 
As promised here some screen captures form the "69" short. Sorry couldn't find any tiki.  
Villagers laugh at 8 cow offer for Ugly Mahana:  
  
Johnny leaves island with Mahana for their honeymoon
 
Crude, uninspired cartoon involving the adventures of a superhero rabbit (named, appropriately enough, the American Rabbit) who is forced to confront a cadre of villainous jackals. The Adventures of the American Rabbit is strictly for the kids, though it seems entirely possible that even they'll find little to embrace here. The animation style is decidedly subpar, making even the most quickie straight-to-video Disney release look astounding by comparison. The voice work is passable, but the dialogue borders on atrocious; the action seems to stop like clockwork every 15 minutes or so as an Important Message is doled out (ie winning isn't everything). And let's not even get into the ridiculousness of the American Rabbit's outfit, which is essentially an American flag supported by roller skates (could the getup possibly be more '80s?)
 
Sadly, the title is the best thing about C.H.O.M.P.S., as the film is strictly for kids (who will undoubtedly get a kick out of the broad humor and rampant silliness on display). The storyline revolves around an inventor (played by Wesley Eure) whose latest creation is a robotic dog that can do just about anything, particularly in the realm of crime prevention. Of course, this being a Disney ripoff, there's a subplot involving a competitor's efforts to steal C.H.O.M.P.S. by dispatching a pair of inept thieves (one of them's played by Red Buttons, if that's any indication). C.H.O.M.P.S. is based on a story idea by Joseph Barbera (half of the famed Hanna-Barbera animation duo), and it seems fairly obvious that the film would have been more effective as a 22-minute cartoon; there's far too much padding here, primarily in the form of the two clumsy burglars and their wacky hijinks.
 
The Golden Seal is saddled with such an overwhelmingly deliberate pace, it seems highly unlikely that the film's target audience (ie small children) will be able to embrace it wholeheartedly (restlessness is bound to set in before the halfway mark). The story revolves around a young boy (played by Torquil Campbell) who discovers a mythical golden seal during a particularly harsh tropical storm, and must prevent his father and other poachers from killing the animal (its pelt is supposedly worth thousands). The Golden Seal's opening half hour is devoted entirely to setting things up (ie the legend of the seal, the various characters, the ridicule the young boy and his family face in the community, etc), which wouldn't necessarily be a problem if there wasn't so much repetition involved; at a certain point, one can't help but wish the film would just get on with it already. It doesn't help that the movie is rife with sequences that are either overlong or completely superfluous (ie an almost interminable scene in which the kid frolics with the seals - in slow-motion!) The conclusion is expectedly rousing, though it's not quite effective enough to allow the viewer to dismiss the unreasonably slow build.
 
It's clear that The Legend of Johnny Lingo has been crafted to appeal to teens, and while the film is never quite as excruciating as it could've been (ie The Adventures of the American Rabbit), there's not much here to keep older viewers engaged. The storyline involves a young boy who is banished from his village after nobody agrees to care for him, and is eventually taken in by a famous trader named Johnny Lingo. The boy takes on the moniker as his own after his adoptive father dies, and uses his newfound notoriety to return to his own island (where he promised a local girl that he would come back for her). While the romance is unexpectedly touching, it's about the only element within the film that manages to make any kind of impact. Despite a bright, colorful style and several effective performances (Rawiri Paratene, the evil grandfather from Whale Rider, has a prominent role), it's impossible to overlook the simplicity with which this story's been told. This isn't necessarily a bad thing; kids will likely find plenty here worth embracing, though the same clearly can't be said for adult viewers.
 
Mac and Me is an extraordinarily blatant riff on E.T. that isn't even remotely as compelling or involving, and feels like nothing more than an effort to cash in on the success of Spielberg's science-fiction classic. The story revolves around a wheelchair-bound boy named Eric (Jade Calegory) who discovers a small alien living in his house, which he calls Mac (as in Mysterious Alien Creature, though the moniker could also apply to the extraterrestrial's love of McDonald's). Aside from the fact that Mac and Me has aged quite poorly (there's a break-dancing sequence, for crying out loud), the film sports a bland, cheap look that certainly doesn't do it any favors. Then there's Mac himself, a puppet which couldn't possibly look more like a puppet (a bad, shoddy puppet at that). The performances aren't much better, though star Calegory does possess a certain amount of natural charisma. Still, it's impossible to look past the various similarities to E.T., of which there are many (the movie even looks as though it was filmed in the same neighborhood as E.T.) And, of course, who could forget the almost comical instances of product placement, particularly Coca-Cola (which Mac must quaff on a regular basis in order to survive).
 a2f82b0cb4
 
